Add general testing section (#110)
infinum/frontend-handbook: Testing.md

   lowered for correct amount, and correct amount should be added to seller, correct items should be
   ordered and so on.
   So like a real world application usage.
   As you can already see, end to end testing is really difficult to do with automatic tests.
   This kind of tests is usually done by QA people, since it might require a separate database and backend from staging/development one.

Above list of testing types can be also called functional and there are more than these types.
There are also non-functional testing types, like:
- Performance testing
- Stress testing
- Security testing
- Localization testing
- Acceptance testing
- And more...

Remember, what and how should software be tested and by whom depends on your organization,
company or team.
For example, Quality Assurance team might do one set of tests instead of you.
Or maybe you will do all by yourself.

### How to literally write tests?

This depends on your development stack.

React developers will use different tools than e.g. Angular or Vue developers.
Wordpress developers also have their arsenal of testing tools.

> What is common for them is, as we said already, that they are writing code for tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What's common for them, as we said already, is that they are writing code for tests.
```

And that code might look like

```Javascript
// isOddNumber is your function

test('isOddNumber returns true for value 35', () => {
  expect(isOddNumber(35))
    .toEqual(true);
});
```

How to use tools in each stack is something each stack should cover.

### TDD

We need to note that we will simplify TDD concept since it cannot be explained in single page.

So what is TDD?

TDD or test driven development is a technique of writing tests before code in a way that you write

> simple failing test and as smallest code possible to pass that test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simple failing test and smallest code possible to pass that test.
```

After that you write another simple failing test and another smallest code to pass this second one.
You continue to do that until you are finished with code and refactor in the middle.

Sounds confusing, but it is not.
Let's see an example.

We will not write code, just explain what is happening.

> Let's say we want to develop calculator function that allows addition, subtraction, multiplication and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say we want to develop a calculator function that allows addition, subtraction, multiplication and
```

division.

> calculator function should take 3 arguments: two numbers and operation type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The calculator function should take 3 arguments: two numbers and operation type.
```

And it needs to be bulletproof and check for all invalid usage.

We will use TDD and start with simple failing test:

- calculator should throw error if called empty

Why is this test failing?
Since we didn't write code to fulfill that test statement yet.

> We write some code to throw error if calculator called empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We write some code to throw an error if calculator was called empty.
```

Test passes.

Next simple failing test will be:

- calculator should throw error if called with less or more than 3 arguments

We could also have negation like: calculator should not throw error if there is exactly 3 arguments.
Try to avoid negations since they can add confusion to code.
Using clean code principles here.
And negativity is not good.

Back to test statement.

> We write code to throw error if there is 0, 1, 2, 4 or more arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We write code to throw an error if there is 0, 1, 2, 4 or more arguments.
```

Test passes.

> We see opportunity to refactor both in code and test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see an opportunity to refactor both in code and test.
```

> There is check for empty and for exactly three arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a check for empty and for exactly three arguments.
```

> We can leave them both, or remove empty check since it is covered by this second test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can leave them both, or remove the empty check since it is covered by this second test.
```

> Let's remove empty check to clean code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's remove the empty check to clean code.
```

Next we need to check if first and second arguments are numbers, and last one string.

- calculator should throw error if invalid types passed for arguments

We write code to check for types.
Test passes.

Then

- calculator should throw error if operation type is invalid

> We test that string is correct value which can be 'ADD', 'SUBTRACT' and so on - whatever our

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We test that the string is correct value which can be 'ADD', 'SUBTRACT' and so on - whatever our
```

interface will provide.
Code will be added and test passes.

Then there is that HUGE check if dividing with 0.

- calculator should not have 0 for 2nd number with 'DIV' operation type

Code for that and test passes.

> You might be yelling 'Where is calculation implementation!'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might be yelling 'Where is the calculation implementation!'.
```

We go step by step and here we first assure that usage is correct, and then functionality should be
added.

Can you see how these checks are describing usage similar to your requirements?
This is very important.
Imagine someone goes to your tests first.
They can know what your code does, if we assume that tests pass, without going to source.
This is something that is making tests cost effective.
If someone needs to know functionality or refactor, it will be easy to do.
We can add few more tests and continue to talk about TDD.

Test for:

- calculator should return 4 if 1 and 3 are passed for 'ADD' operation type

Write code.
Test passes.

- calculator should return -4 if -1 and -3 are passed for 'ADD' operation type

Again.
Write code.
Test passes.
And so on.

Many developers find TDD annoying, not useful or time-consuming.
This only means they do not see its full potential.

> TDD is excellent technique for catching bugs in the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TDD is an excellent technique for catching bugs in the start.
```

There are some rules which you have to follow.

Most popular rules are:
- You are not allowed to write any production code unless it is to make a failing unit test pass.
  This means you must not write code before test.

- You are not allowed to write any more of a unit test than is sufficient to fail; and compilation
  failures are failures.
  This means you must write test as small as possible and failing one.

- You are not allowed to write any more production code than is sufficient to pass the one failing unit
  test.
  This means you must not write more code than needed to pass test.

Every TDD should stick to this rules.

With these rules, there is also something called RED-GREEN-REFACTOR phases.

Red means you write a failing test.
Imagine this as request to add new functionality by your user.

> You do not have implementation at the moment, just criteria for what should it be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not have implementation at the moment, just criteria for what it should be.
```

You should not think about implementation here.

> Just, how it should be used, at the moment, not later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just how should it be used at the moment, not later.
```

> Let's get back to calculator function and second test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get back to the calculator function and its second test.
```

> Skipping first since we removed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Skipping the first one since we removed it.
```

This test is checking if we have 3 arguments.
Here, we might consider few options like maybe:
- having 2 arguments - array of numbers, and operation type like [2, 3, 5], 'ADD';
  so we can for example add multiple numbers and not just two
- having also 2 arguments - array of arrays where each array is
  [[2, 3, 'ADD'], [7, 6, 'SUBTRACT']] and operation type to calculate them all
- or something else.

Concentrate on current work, and not something in the future.

> Green phase is where you finally can make implementation and make your test passing - green.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Green phase is where you can finally make the implementation and make your test passing - green.
```

> And it is test not tests since you should at this moment concentrate on new one and not old tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And it is test not tests since you should, at this moment, concentrate on the new one and not the old tests.
```

Write directly to pass it.
Don't bother with duplication or ugly code.
This can be refactored, and guess what, your tests will tell you if you refactored correctly.

> And finally refactor phase (also known as yellow phase) where you remove code duplication, clean a bit, make variable names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And finally refactor phase (also known as yellow phase) where you remove code duplication, clean up a bit, make variable names
```

better and so on.
One change, one execution of all tests.

> If something fails, go back to where you have been before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If something fails, go back to where you were before.
```

It is easy with IDEs and Undo action.

> And then you repeat all steps for new test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then you repeat all steps for further tests.
```

> This is as we said simplified version of TDD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is, as we said, a simplified version of TDD.
```

TDD sounds easy but is hard to master and requires a lot of practice.
TDD does not mean only unit testing, but it is mostly used for that.

Unit tests are okay, but not sufficient to be sure that software is working properly so you also
need to test it with different types of testing.

Remember, 'Test it before you waste it', and we mean code.

### Team player

When working on a project as a team you decide
* how your code will be structured,
* what tools should be used in development,
* what are your and general best practices,
* and so on...

It is not different when deciding these points (and more) for application testing.

> There are some "laws" created by community and us which need to be followed, but rest is on you and your team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some "laws" created by the community and us which need to be followed, but the rest is on you and your team.
```

The main point is that everyone is on the same page after the decisions are made.

#### "Laws"

![Testing](/img/testing.jpg)

1. Any testing is better than no testing
2. Do not test 3rd party code (including yours in different project - like in a library)
3. Tests are also code so make them clean

> 4. Pre-commit test execution is must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Pre-commit test execution is a must
```
